# GERDA_light

GERDA light based on the GEospatially Referenced Demographic Agent-based model [GERDA](https://ford.biologie.hu-berlin.de/jwodke/corona_model/-/blob/master/README.md?ref_type=heads) for for virus (SARS-CoV-2) transmission and disease (COVID-19) progression.
The model and key observation are published under:

B. Goldenbogen, S. O. Adler, O. Bodeit, J. A. H. Wodke, X. Escalera-Fanjul, A. Korman, M. Krantz, L. Bonn, R. Morán-Torres, J. E. L. Haffner, M. Karnetzki, I. Maintz, L. Mallis, H. Prawitz, P. S. Segelitz, M. Seeger, R. Linding, E. Klipp, Control of COVID-19 Outbreaks under Stochastic Community Dynamics, Bimodality, or Limited Vaccination. Adv. Sci. 2022, 9, 2200088. [doi] (https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202200088)  

The purpose of GERDA-light ist to test different coarse graining approaches to enhance the performance or size of the model.  Thus generation of the synthetic population is not part of GERDA-light, but it uses the the files generated by the full GERDA. Files for the municipality Gangelt in Germany are stored in the Folder ```src\```. Files with the numbers 1 and 3  refer to the whole population (~10000 agents) and the a reduced population (~1000 agents). 
Although GERDA-light base on the principles used in GERDA, the algorithm is complete reworked.

For questions and feedback, please contact us.

## SETUP
The code in this repository was implemented using python 3.10 on linux and mac operating systems. If you do not have Python installed, please checkout Python webpage for installation information.

We recommend installing the gerda package in a Conda environment. Used packages are listed in ```gl.yml``` 

## Usage
GERDA is a stochastic modeling approach, thus relevant conclusions can only be drawn from repeated simulation of the same scenario.
To check out the model functionalities and to simulate virus propagation we included the  ```play.ipynb```, in which the generation and simulation of a model can be tested. 

